+++
title = 'Will an instrument rating make me safer?'
date = 2024-08-31T23:09:09-04:00
draft = false
+++

I had a conversation with a friend from my previous job, recently certified as a
private pilot. The friend is contemplating an instrument rating. I don't
remember if we explicitly framed the question, "Will an instrument rating make
me safer," but that was definitely part of our discussion.

The obvious answer is, "Yes, of course!" The disappointing trend continues of
non-instrument-rated pilots coming to grief by flying under Visual Flight Rules
(VFR) into Instrument Meteorological Conditions (IMC). Search ["VFR into
IMC"](https://www.aopa.org/training-and-safety/air-safety-institute/safety-centers/vfr-into-imc)
for the grim statistics, including the AOPA's conclusion that a pilot in this
circumstance has [178 seconds to
live](https://www.aopa.org/news-and-media/all-news/2022/june/pilot/asi-tips-178-seconds).
(And as I may discuss in a later post, one of the widest gaps between _legal_
and _safe_ to be found in all of aviation may be that of a VFR pilot flying on a
dark night.)

So why would I have even a moment's hesitation in answering? Take two
well-rested pilots, equally proficient in the core aspects of Visual Flight
Rules (VFR) airmanship, who differ only in holding an instrument rating. Each
contemplates a flight into night Visual Meteorological Conditions (VMC). The
instrument-rated pilot is undoubtedly safer.

But now, consider the same two pilots planning identical flights, wrapping up a
briefing in which the briefer said, "The ceiling at your departure airport is
600 feet overcast, visibility 2 miles. Your destination has a ceiling of 800
feet broken, 3 miles visibility in light rain."

The non-instrument-rated pilot doesn't have a decision to make: those weather
conditions mean that VFR flight is grounded. It's flat-out unlawful.

By contrast, the instrument-rated pilot's decision-making process has just
begun. Some questions have clear answers, even if she has to look them up, like
whether an alternate is required. Others require judgment and wisdom, like the
ability to consider proficiency, personal minimums, and evaluate the
[PAVE](https://www.faa.gov/sites/faa.gov/files/2022-11/PAVE_0.pdf) and
[IMSAFE](https://www.faa.gov/sites/faa.gov/files/2022-01/Single-Pilot%20Crew%20Resource%20Management.pdf)
factors, among many other considerations.

Suppose she's flown tons of approaches in the last few months, the tops are at
1,500, the freezing levels are thousands of feet above, there's good VFR 30
miles west of the whole route of flight, the airplane is a solid instrument
platform with a good autopilot, and there's no pressure to get there. This
flight is sounding pretty great! In a few minutes, she might slip out of the
tops of clouds into a beautiful, smooth moonlit night that she'll be able to
call to mind vividly for years to come.

But if she has six approaches under the hood five months ago, the whole region
is socked in, the panel lights are dim, it's cold out, and the
insert-your-clichéd-_get-there-itis_-reasons-here is tomorrow, this doesn't seem
so great.

So the answer to my friend's question is this: an instrument rating _should_
make you safer. And it _will_ make you safer—but only if you make good
decisions. Stated simply, an instrument-rated pilot has many more opportunities
to make bad decisions and must work with many additional shades of gray. So yes,
of course, go get your instrument rating! ([Give me a
buzz](mailto:ethan@raleighflightinstructor.com) if you're local!) But you
must—_must_—take the decision-making and risk-management aspects seriously. It's
not boilerplate or box-checking. It truly is the decisive factor in answering
_yes_ to our framing question.
